次の英文を読み, 設問に答えなさい。

“Some twenty years ago I saw, or thought I saw, a synchronal or simultaneous flashing of
fireflies. I could hardly believe my eyes, for such a thing to occur among insects is certainly contrary to
all natural laws.”

So wrote Philip Laurent in the journal Science in 1917, as he joined the debate about this perplexing
phenomenon. For 300 years, Western travelers to Southeast Asia had been returning with tales of
enormous congregations of fireflies blinking on and off in unison, in displays that supposedly stretched
for miles along the riverbanks. These anecdotal reports, often written in the romantic style favored by
authors of travel books, provoked @ widespread disbelief. How could thousands of fireflies orchestrate
their flashings so precisely and on such a vast scale?

For decades, no one could come up with a plausible theory,( 1 )by the late 1960s, the pieces of the
puzzle began to fall into place. One clue was so obvious that nearly everyone missed it. Synchronous
fireflies not only flash in unison — they flash in rhythm, at a constant tempo. Even when isolated from
one another, they still keep to a steady beat. That implies that each insect must have its own means of
keeping time, some sort of internal clock. This hypothetical oscillator is still unidentified anatomically
but is presumed to be a cluster of neurons somewhere in the firefly’s tiny brain. Much like the natural
pacemaker in our hearts, the oscillator fires repetitively, generating an electrical rhythm that travels
downstream to the firefly’s lantern and ultimately triggers its periodic flash.

The second clue came from the work of the biologist John Buck, who did more than anyone else to
make the study of synchronous fireflies scientifically respectable. In the mid-1960s, he and his wife,
Elisabeth, traveled to Thailand for the first time, in hopes of seeing the spectacular displays for
themselves. In an informal but revealing experiment, they captured scores of fireflies along the tidal
rivers near Bangkok and released them in their darkened hotel room. The insects flitted about
nervously, then gradually settled down all over the walls and ceiling, always spacing themselves at least
10 centimeters apart. ( 2 ) they twinkled incoherently. As the Bucks watched in silent wonderment,
pairs and then trios began to pulse in unison. Pockets of synchrony continued to emerge and grow,
( 3 )as many as a dozen fireflies were blinking on and off in perfect concert.

These observations suggested that the fireflies must somehow be adjusting their rhythms in response to
the flashes of others. To test that hypothesis directly, Buck and his colleagues later conducted laboratory
studies where they flashed an artificial light at a firefly (to mimic the flash of another) and measured its
response. They found that an individual firefly will shift the timing of its subsequent flashes in a
consistent, predictable manner, and that the size and direction of the shift depend on when in the cycle
the stimulus was received. For some species, the stimulus always advanced the firefly’s rhythm, as if
setting its clock ahead; for other species, the clock could be either delayed or advanced, depending on
whether the firefly was just about to flash, whether it was halfway between flashes, and so on.

( 4 ), the two clues suggested that the flash rhythm was regulated by an internal, resettable oscillator.
( 5 ) that immediately suggested a possible synchronization mechanism: In a congregation of flashing
fireflies, every one is continually sending and receiving signals, shifting the rhythms of others and being
shifted by them in turn. Out of the hubbub, sync somehow emerges spontaneously.

We are ( 6 ) led to entertain an explanation that seemed unthinkable just a few decades ago 一 the
fireflies organize themselves. No maestro is required, and it doesn’t matter what the weather is like.
Sync occurs through mutual cuing, in the same way that an orchestra can keep perfect time without a
conductor. What’s counterintuitive here is that the insects don’t need to be intelligent. They have all the
ingredients they need: Each firefly contains an oscillator — a little metronome — whose timing adjusts
automatically in response to the flashes of others.

(Adapted from Steven H. Strogatz, Sync: How Order Emerges from Chaos in the Universe, Nature, and
Daily Life, 2003)
下線部①が示す Philip Laurent の心境に最も近いものを選択肢 1一4 の中から選びなさい。
1. What he saw was disgusting.             2. What he saw was dreadful.
3. What he saw was incredible.                      4. What he saw was scary.
[2] 下線部②④が指す事柄として最も適切なものを選択肢1 ~ 4 の中から選びなさい。

1. Fireflies coordinate the flashing of their lights.

2. Fireflies emit light along the riverbanks.

3. Fireflies flock together in Southeast Asia.

4. Fireflies move in liaison with other fireflies.

[3] 空所( 1 )一( 6 ) ABs iL) REALS HARK 1 ~ 6 の中から選びなさい。同じ選択肢を一度
選んではいけません。 なお, 文頭にくるべき語も小文字にしてあります。

1. and                           2. at first                        3. but

4. taken together               5. thus                          6. until
[4] 次の文は英文全体の要旨を述べたものである。下記の空所 ( ア ) 一(カ ) に入る語として最も適切なも

のを選択肢 1 一9の中から選びなさい。 同じ選択肢を二度選んではいけません。

