Though some people questioned their( 7 ), for several hundred years, many Western travelers to
Southeast Asia reported on a particular natural phenomenon — the synchronized blinking of groups of
fireflies. It was not until the 1960s that a ( 4 ) theory came together to account for how this is
possible. Firstly, what people noticed is that the fireflies blinked at a steady tempo. This ability, people
reasoned, must come from something internal to the fireflies, though nobody has yet determined
where this ability ( ウ ), anatomically speaking.

Another piece of the puzzle was solved by John Buck, who, together with his wife, captured fireflies
in Thailand and released them into their darkened hotel room. What they noticed was the way the
fireflies spaced themselves on the walls and ceiling and slowly began to synchronize their flashes based
on the fireflies nearest them. This synchronization increasingly spread to other fireflies. Buck later
tested his ideas in the laboratory, using the flash of an artificial light to explore how fireflies adjust
their own flashes accordingly. Like a clock being adjusted forwards or backwards, some fireflies
advanced their flashes and some delayed them to achieve synchronization with the ( エ ). Through
simple ( オ ) fireflies achieve a( カ ) that to us might seem like it would require greater intelligence.

1. accounts         2. adjust           3. credible         4. feat              5. mechanisms

6. memory         7. resides           8. resonates        9. stimulus

[5] 英文で用いられている比除を考慮して, 下記の空所 ( 1 )一( 5 ) に入る語として最も適切なものを選
択肢1 一9の中から選びなさい。ただし, 順序は問いません。 同じ選択肢を二度選んではいけません。

Fireflies congregate like ( 1 ). The light in each of their tails blinks steadily like( 2 )or( 3 ).
They adjust their blinks according to the fireflies flashing around them like ( 4 ). Through this
process, they gradually sync together with other fireflies like ( 5 ).

a beating heart

a changing traffic light

a group of musicians playing without a conductor
a metronome

an oscillating fan

people gathering at a church

people traveling to Southeast Asia

someone changing their schedule

someone changing the time on a clock

CHONMRTAwWNE
