

“Some twenty years ago I saw, or thought I saw, a synchronal or simultaneous flashing of
fireflies. I could hardly believe my eyes, for such a thing to occur among insects is certainly contrary to
all natural laws.”

So wrote Philip Laurent in the journal Science in 1917, as he joined the debate about this perplexing
phenomenon. For 300 years, Western travelers to Southeast Asia had been returning with tales of
enormous congregations of fireflies blinking on and off in unison, in displays that supposedly stretched
for miles along the riverbanks. These anecdotal reports, often written in the romantic style favored by
authors of travel books, provoked @ widespread disbelief. How could thousands of fireflies orchestrate
their flashings so precisely and on such a vast scale?

For decades, no one could come up with a plausible theory,( 1 )by the late 1960s, the pieces of the
puzzle began to fall into place. One clue was so obvious that nearly everyone missed it. Synchronous
fireflies not only flash in unison — they flash in rhythm, at a constant tempo. Even when isolated from
one another, they still keep to a steady beat. That implies that each insect must have its own means of
keeping time, some sort of internal clock. This hypothetical oscillator is still unidentified anatomically
but is presumed to be a cluster of neurons somewhere in the firefly’s tiny brain. Much like the natural
pacemaker in our hearts, the oscillator fires repetitively, generating an electrical rhythm that travels
downstream to the firefly’s lantern and ultimately triggers its periodic flash.

The second clue came from the work of the biologist John Buck, who did more than anyone else to
make the study of synchronous fireflies scientifically respectable. In the mid-1960s, he and his wife,
Elisabeth, traveled to Thailand for the first time, in hopes of seeing the spectacular displays for
themselves. In an informal but revealing experiment, they captured scores of fireflies along the tidal
rivers near Bangkok and released them in their darkened hotel room. The insects flitted about
nervously, then gradually settled down all over the walls and ceiling, always spacing themselves at least
10 centimeters apart. ( 2 ) they twinkled incoherently. As the Bucks watched in silent wonderment,
pairs and then trios began to pulse in unison. Pockets of synchrony continued to emerge and grow,
( 3 )as many as a dozen fireflies were blinking on and off in perfect concert.

These observations suggested that the fireflies must somehow be adjusting their rhythms in response to
the flashes of others. To test that hypothesis directly, Buck and his colleagues later conducted laboratory
studies where they flashed an artificial light at a firefly (to mimic the flash of another) and measured its
response. They found that an individual firefly will shift the timing of its subsequent flashes in a
consistent, predictable manner, and that the size and direction of the shift depend on when in the cycle
the stimulus was received. For some species, the stimulus always advanced the firefly’s rhythm, as if
setting its clock ahead; for other species, the clock could be either delayed or advanced, depending on
whether the firefly was just about to flash, whether it was halfway between flashes, and so on.

( 4 ), the two clues suggested that the flash rhythm was regulated by an internal, resettable oscillator.
( 5 ) that immediately suggested a possible synchronization mechanism: In a congregation of flashing
fireflies, every one is continually sending and receiving signals, shifting the rhythms of others and being
shifted by them in turn. Out of the hubbub, sync somehow emerges spontaneously.

We are ( 6 ) led to entertain an explanation that seemed unthinkable just a few decades ago 一 the
fireflies organize themselves. No maestro is required, and it doesn’t matter what the weather is like.
Sync occurs through mutual cuing, in the same way that an orchestra can keep perfect time without a
conductor. What’s counterintuitive here is that the insects don’t need to be intelligent. They have all the
ingredients they need: Each firefly contains an oscillator — a little metronome — whose timing adjusts
automatically in response to the flashes of others.

(Adapted from Steven H. Strogatz, Sync: How Order Emerges from Chaos in the Universe, Nature, and
Daily Life, 2003)


Choose the one from options 1-4 that best describes Philip Laurent's state of mind as indicated by the underlined part (1). 1.
What he saw was disgusting. 2.
What he saw was incredible. 4. what he saw was scary.
[2] Choose the most appropriate one from the choices 1 - 4 that the underlined parts (2) and (4) refer to. 1.

Fireflies coordinate the flashing of their lights. 2.

Fireflies emit light along the riverbanks. 3.

Fireflies flock together in Southeast Asia. 4.

Fireflies move in liaison with other fireflies.

[3] Choose one of the following from the blanks ( 1 )1( 6 ) ABs iL) REALS HARK 1 ~ 6. Do not choose the same option more than once.
Do not choose the same option more than once. The word which should be at the beginning of the sentence is also lowercased.

1. and 2. at first 3. but

4. taken together 5. thus 6. until
[4] The following sentence is the gist of the whole sentence. The following sentence gives the gist of the whole English sentence.

(a) Choose the word that best fits in (i) (f) from the choices 1 through 9 below. Do not choose the same option twice.
Though some people questioned their( 7 ), for several hundred years, many Western travelers to
Southeast Asia reported on a particular natural phenomenon — the synchronized blinking of groups of
fireflies. It was not until the 1960s that a ( 4 ) theory came together to account for how this is
possible. Firstly, what people noticed is that the fireflies blinked at a steady tempo. This ability, people
reasoned, must come from something internal to the fireflies, though nobody has yet determined
where this ability ( ウ ), anatomically speaking.

Another piece of the puzzle was solved by John Buck, who, together with his wife, captured fireflies
in Thailand and released them into their darkened hotel room. What they noticed was the way the
fireflies spaced themselves on the walls and ceiling and slowly began to synchronize their flashes based
on the fireflies nearest them. This synchronization increasingly spread to other fireflies. Buck later
tested his ideas in the laboratory, using the flash of an artificial light to explore how fireflies adjust
their own flashes accordingly. Like a clock being adjusted forwards or backwards, some fireflies
advanced their flashes and some delayed them to achieve synchronization with the ( エ ). Through
simple ( オ ) fireflies achieve a( カ ) that to us might seem like it would require greater intelligence.

1. accounts         2. adjust           3. credible         4. feat              5. mechanisms

6. memory         7. resides           8. resonates        9. stimulus

[5] Considering the proportional divisions used in the English text, choose the most appropriate word that fits in the following blanks ( 1 ), ( 1 ), ( 5 ).
Choose the most appropriate one from the choices 1 to 9. The order is not required. Do not choose the same option twice.

Fireflies congregate like ( 1 ). The light in each of their tails blinks steadily like( 2 )or( 3 ).
They adjust their blinks according to the fireflies flashing around them like ( 4 ). Through this
process, they gradually sync together with other fireflies like ( 5 ).

1. a beating heart

2. a changing traffic light

3. a group of musicians playing without a conductor
4. a metronome

5. an oscillating fan

6. people gathering at a church

7. people traveling to Southeast Asia

8. someone changing their schedule

9. someone changing the time on a clock

CHONMRTAwWNE
