
2  

Many people oretain an interest in politics — we all would like laws made to suit us — but fewer
and fewer people seem interested in being politicians. It’s simply not a very attractive job. In a world of
myriad possibilities, especially for those who have the technical abilities that bring lavish rewards in the
private sector, politics looks like a real grind. Politicians have to work very hard, under intense
scrutiny, for little reward. They sometimes suffer public contempt and media abuse; more often their
hard work is greeted with indifference. Unsurprisingly, the class of people interested in doing politics is
shrinking. This is good news if you do happen to have an appetite ( 1 ) it. The competition is not
what it was, so that a desire to get into politics is often all it takes to be given that chance. In Britain the
current crop of leading politicians is drawn from a remarkably narrow set of political careerists, most of
who have been doing politics since they were at university. Many of them were at university together.

The present British prime minister, foreign secretary, chancellor of the exchequer, education secretary,
leader of the opposition, shadow chancellor and shadow home secretary were all part of the same
generation of Oxford politics students. I didn’t go to Oxford, but I did go to the same school as David
Cameron — Eton — at the same time he did. When we were there, he was pointed out to me as
someone who wanted to be prime minister. We were sixteen. Eton is an absurdly privileged school
full of well-connected and ambitious boys, but few had an interest in politics: most wanted to be bankers
or film stars. I only heard of one other who wanted to be prime minister. His name was Boris Johnson.
«Watching these two rise effortlessly to the top of British politics makes it hard to believe that the
greasy pole is as greasy as it used to be.

Does it matter that the political class is shrinking? In one sense, no. It isa( 2) of broad satisfaction
with the political system that most people don’t want to have anything to do with politics if they can
help it. If they were really unhappy, the high entry barriers would not put them off. More likely in their
@tage they would tear them down.

However, there are real dangers to this narrowing of the political class. It opens up a gap between
politicians and the rest of uo, which can gbneed coalemnpt boil says. [LZ], we will start to jpoE down
on them as weirdos. Meanwhile, the politicians will start to look down on us as fools, because we don’t
understand the business they are in. The disdain many voters feel for professional politicians is matched
by the disdain many professional politicians feel for the voters. Each thinks the other lot don’t get
( 3 ). As the gap grows, it becomes easier for politicians to gravitate towards their fellow elites, who at
least have a respect for insider knowledge. The political network interlocks with networks of financial,
technological and military expertise, which locks the public out. A narrow class of politicians is bound
to have a @skewed view of the world it inhabits, because members rarely get to see how their world
looks from the outside. The failure to anticipate the financial crisis of 2008 is evidence of how easily
closed-off groups can lose sight of what they are doing.

Above all, there is the danger that Benjamin Constant warned against. If we leave routine politics in
the hands of a narrow group of specialists, we won’t know how to take it back from them when we need
it. People who think they can pick up politics when they need it often find that when they really need it
they don’t know ( 4 ) to find it. The only way to learn how to do politics is to keep on doing it, in
good times as well as bad. We need more politics and we need more politicians.

(Adapted from David Runciman, Politics, 2014)

Choose the one from options 1 through 5 that most closely matches the meaning of the underlined parts (1) through (6).

① 1. are encouraged to have   2. continue to have      3. obtain
4. regain           5. remain
® 1. dull work         2. groundbreaking discovery 3. hike
4. joy            5. reward
@® 1. appropriately       2. fortunately        3. obviously
4. ridiculously         5. unfortunately
® 1. ambition         2. anger          3. love
4. panic            5. sadness
® 1. cancel          2. cause to weaken      3. give birth to
4. inhale           5. intensify
⑥ 1. comprehensive      2. distorted         3. grand
4. identical       5. tiny

[2] Choose the most appropriate word in 1( 4 ) from the choices 1 ~ 5.
(1) 1. for     2. in       3. of       4. to       5. with
( 2 ) 1. design    2. fantasy     3. hope      4. post      5. sign
( 3 ) 1. along    2. it       3. on       4. sick      5. with
( 4 ) 1. this     2. whatever    3. when     4. where     5. who

[3]Rearrange the following words and phrases in the order of grammatical and content most appropriate to complete X. Write the number of the 2nd word and the number of the 5th word in the order of grammatical and content most appropriate to complete X. 
 
1. have a peculiar                     2. if we

3. interest in politics                               4. is only for people who happen.
5. politics                  6. think that professional

7. to

[4] Choose the one from choices 1 through 5 that best matches the meaning of the underlined part (). 1.
1. it takes more time to get ahead in British politics than before. 2. to get ahead in British politics, you do not have time to sell oil as much as before.
2. to get ahead in British politics, you do not have time to sell oil as much as before.
3. in order to get ahead in the British politics, you do not need to use sycophancy as much as before.
4. it is not as difficult to get ahead in British politics as it used to be.
5. it is not so rare to get ahead in British politics as it used to be.

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
[5] Choose the title that best describes the content of the English text from options 1 through 5.
1. Engineers: The New British Elites               2. Mutual Hate
3. No Pain, No Gain                                4. Get Involved in Politics Before It’s Too Late
5. Why We Shouldn’t Trust Politicians
[6] Choose the three that best match the content of the English text from the choices 1 ~ 7. However, the order of the answers does not matter.
1. Many students at Eton College wanted to become law-makers.
2. People lose sight of what they are doing when they are in closed groups.
3. People with technical expertise tend not to be interested in becoming politicians.
4
5

Politicians inevitably respect the voters.
. The more politicians and people look down on each other, the more they will bond with the
people in their class.
6. The writer attended the University of Oxford with David Cameron.
7. Ultimately, it does not matter whether the political class is getting smaller.
