3  Read the following radio interview transcript between Lulu Garcia-Navarro (LGN) and Joyce
Poole (JP) and answer the questions which follow.

LGN: For almost half a century, Joyce Poole has been listening to what elephants have to say and
studying the way they behave and communicate. Now she and her husband, Petter Granli, have
created the African Elephant Ethogram, a comprehensive audio-visual library of the animals.
Tell us about these recordings. What is an ethogram, and how does it work?

JP: Well, an ethogram is really a library of all the behaviors of a species. And so this ethogram is not
just the vocalizations, the calls of elephants. But it’s also all their behaviors. So the way they
communicate, using their ears and their trunk and also the other things they do, for instance,
different techniques they use to feed. But, of course, people are — especially radio programs —
would be very interested in the sounds that they make.

LGN: Indeed, we are. And I want to play a few of these. Let’s listen to something called the baroo
rumble.

(soundbite of elephant rumbling)

JP: Baroo rumbles are made when a calf or elephant is feeling @hard done by. It’s a kind of gwoe is
me, and please come and make me feel better and comfort me.

LGN: All right. Let’s hear now what you call a greeting ceremony.

(soundbite of elephant trumpeting)

LGN: Wow. Tell us about this one.

JP: Well, you know, elephants live in families. Elephants live up to 70 years old. And so members of
a family stay together for life. But they’re like our families. They’re not always together. So the
families will split up. And then when they come back together, they have greeting ceremonies. So
they rumble. And they trumpet. They urinate and defecate and spin around and clank their tusks
together. It’s an extraordinary sight.

(Adapted from National Public Radio, “Scientist Joyce Poole on What Elephants Have to Say.” May 30, 2021)

[1] Choose the most similar meaning for each underlined word or expression © through ③.

1. broad and in-depth                              2. clear and concise

3. fixed and permanent                              4. sound and sight
@® 1. hardy and strong                                  2. strong and stroppy

3. treated fairly but stern                           4. treated harshly or unfairly
@® 1. my life is so rewarding                          2. my life is so simple

3. my life is so tough                                 4. my life is so wonderful

(2] Which of the three statements listed below are most strongly supported by the interview? Your
answers may be in any order.

An ethogram is more than just a collection of animal sounds.

Elephants and calves use the baroo rumble in different ways.

Elephants stay together for life, never leaving each other’s side.

Elephants urinate and defecate when they see something extraordinary.

Elephants use more than one part of their body to communicate.

Elephants will only bang their tusks with other elephants when they are upset.

Poole has been studying elephants for longer than an elephant can live.

Rumbles are used by elephants to express both pleasure and displeasure.

団 Complete the following paragraph by filling in the blanks ( 1 ) through ( 6 ) from the options
below and based on the content of the interview above.

I heard this interview the other day on the radio about elephants. Did you know that elephants

have a special sound they make when they ( 1 )? They also have a sound they make when they’re
( 2 ) after a long separation. There is this couple who have made it their life’s (3) to record all of
their calls and stuff. You know, I thought only humans had ceremonies, but it( 4 ) out elephants do,
too. When they see each other again after a long separation, they get all excited, start trumpeting, and
( 5 ) themselves. I think I might try trumpeting when I get home tonight. Who knows, maybe I will
starta( 6 ). I think I’d better leave the rest of the ceremony to the elephants, though.

SONA ROVE

( 1 ) 1. are over the hill             2. are over the moon

3. have a crush on another elephant             4. think the world’s against them
( 2 ) 1. breaking up   2. catching up    3. keeping up     4. making up
( 3 ) 1. lesson      2. mission      3. savings      4. time
( 4 ) 1. breaks      2. finds        3. turns       4. works
(5 ) 1. feed       2. pamper      3. relieve       4. wash
( 6 ) 1. history      2. memory      3. trend       4. war
